# Customer Segmentation using Clustering Techniques

The purpose of this project was to learn more about how customers behave so we can group similar minded people together. From this we can study those behaviors to reach out about different offers. This data set in particular includes information about an email campaign for a wine distributor, it includes transactional data about who responded and who ended up purchasing. 

Methods used include K-Means clustering with two techniques to choose K. The first was the elbow sum-of-squares method to choose k, which computes the squared distances to the centroid each data was assigned to. It is called the "elbow method" because we aim at choosing the point where the sum of squares begins to decline more slowly, which is meant to avoid overfitting. If we imagine each data having its own centroid, the sum of squares would be zero, but of course we would have a terribly overfit model. The second method for choosing K was the Silhouette Method. This measures how good of a fit a given point is with respect to its centroid and others. It does this by considering the average distance for each data to others in its own cluster, and to the closest point in another. A plot with the silhouette score is given in the notebook.

Finally, the clusters were visualized using principal component analysis (PCA) to reduce the dimensionality from 32 (the number of features) to 2. The visualized cluster resembles that of a spiral, which is a challenging grouping problem. After visualizing each cluster it appears that the best clustering method would be either spectral clustering or agglomerative clustering. The data suggested a split between customers who preferred red or white wine, agglomerative clustering may have spotted this trend and decided to split the data into these two groups. Visually speaking, spectral clustering seems to identify the legs of the spiral very well however.
